The business you're building, the team
you're building, the way you're
operating is the very bleeding edge of
how companies are trying to operate in
this AI era.
>> We have a head of AI operations. She's
just constantly like building prompts
and building workflows so that I and
everyone else on the team are just
automating as much as possible.
>> What are some things that you believe
about AI that most people don't?
>> I hate the headlines that are like
entry-le jobs are taken away by AI.
Whenever I see a kid with ChetBT, I'm
like, "Holy [__] they're going to go so
much faster than any other person that
I've worked with, we have this guy, he
made like a year's worth of progress in
like two months because every time I sat
down with him and told him, "Okay,
here's how you tell a story. Here's how
you think about a headline." Like, he
recorded all of it, put it into a
prompt, and he never made the same
mistake twice.
>> There's this sense we're getting to a
place where you don't have to write any
code. Like, you have a product team not
writing code at all.
>> No one is manually coding anymore.
organizations like ours, people who are
playing at the edge. We're doing things
that in like three years everybody else
is going to be doing today. My guest is
Dan Shipper. Dan is the co-founder and
CEO of Every which is a company that is
at the very bleeding edge of what is
possible with AI. Their team of just 15
employees has built and shipped four
different products. They publish a daily
newsletter and they have a consulting
arm that helps companies adopt the
latest AI best practices. On their
product team, their engineers don't
handw write a single line of code and
instead use an arsenal of agents who
help them craft requirements and build
their products. Their editorial arm uses
AI to publish better work faster. And
they even have a person whose entire job
is to help every employee at the company
become more efficient using the latest
AI workflows. In our conversation, Dan
shares a bunch of tactics that they use
internally to increase the leverage of
their own employees, his personal AI
tool stack, the one predictor that he's
found for whether a company will
successfully find huge productivity
gains through AI, how he's building his
company in a really unique way, a bunch
of predictions for where AI is going,
and so much more. If you enjoy this
podcast, don't forget to subscribe and
follow it in your favorite podcasting
app or YouTube. And also, if you become
an annual subscriber of my newsletter,
you get a bunch of amazing products for
free for one year, including Superhuman,
Linear, Notion, Perplexity, Bolt,
Granola, and more. Check it out at
lenny'snewsletter.com and click bundle.
With that, I bring you Dan Shipper. This
episode is brought to you by Code
Rabbit, the AI code review platform,
transforming how engineering teams ship
faster with AI without sacrificing code
quality. Code reviews are critical but
time consuming. Code Rabbit acts as your
AI co-pilot, providing instant code
review comments and potential impacts of
every pull request. Beyond just flagging
issues, Code Rabbit provides one-click
fix suggestions and lets you define
custom code quality rules using a GP
patterns, catching subtle issues that
traditional static analysis tools might
miss. Code Rabbit also provides free AI
code reviews directly in the IDE. It's
available in VS Code, Cursor, and
Windsurf. Code Rabbit has so far
reviewed more than 10 million PRs,
installed on 1 million repositories, and
is used by over 70,000 open-source
projects. Get Code Rabbit for free for
an entire year at.ai
using code Lenny. That's
codeabrabbit.ai.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX.
If you're an engineering leader or on a
platform team, at some point your CEO
will inevitably ask you for productivity
metrics. But measuring engineering
organizations is hard. And we can all
agree that simple metrics like the
number of PRs or commits doesn't tell
the full story. That's where DX comes
in. DX is an engineering intelligence
solution designed by leading
researchers, including those behind the
Dora and space frameworks. It combines
quantitative data from developer tools
with qualitative feedback from
developers to give you a complete view
of engineering productivity and the
factors affecting it. Learn why some of
the world's most iconic companies like
Etsy, Dropbox, Twilio, Versel, and Web
Flow rely on DX. Visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
Dan, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Thank you
for having me. I've obviously been a
huge fan for a long time and so it's an
honor to be here.
>> It's my honor, Dan. I feel like this is
a podcast that was meant to be. Uh I'm
so happy we're finally doing this.
There's so damn much that I want to talk
about. There's so damn much we can talk
about. I thought it'd be fun to start
with just some hot takes. And the reason
I want to start here is I feel like you
spend more time thinking about AI, uh,
building with AI, using AI, evaluating
AI than anyone else I know nearly. And
so I really respect your insights and
your, uh, perspectives on where things
are going. So, let me just ask you this
kind of question and see where this
goes. What are some things that you
believe about AI using AI AI tools that
most people don't believe? I'm going to
go with my hottest take and this is the
take that I have the least evidence for.
So, let's just start with that. I have
other more well-reasoned takes to give
you, but this is my hottest one, which
is I think that AI may be a one of the
biggest force for reshoring American
jobs. And so, I think everyone is
worried about it unemploying people. And
for sure, it will change the skills
needed to do the jobs that you're doing,
but I think it may actually reshore a
lot of jobs. And it'll do that in two
ways. Um, one is there are a lot of
expensive services that uh rich people
and big companies uh are pay for right
now. So like a you know in-house counsel
or like you know uh call center or
whatever. Um and what cheap intelligence
does is it makes those kinds of things
affordable for small companies and
individuals. So it stimulates demand.
The other thing that it does is it
allows people um who are in those jobs
to serve more people cheaply. So if
you're uh so it may not get rid of
customer service, for example, but it
may allow you know 10 people in the
Midwest who would normally be working at
a call center to serve hundreds of
thousands or millions of people. Maybe
maybe that's maybe that's too much, but
like a lot more people than they would
ordinarily if they were the ones on the
on the phone all the time. And so it
becomes much more cost-effective for
American companies to hire people in the
US. And I think the people in the US are
going to be better in a in in a lot of
cases at using these AI tools to um do
work. I so I think it may actually make
it more effective to have job those jobs
in the US run by people sitting in the
US who are using it to get to get work
done and also the model companies are
here too. So there's there's a lot of
American stuff happening and you can you
can decide whether or not you think
that's a good thing but um I think it's
quite it's quite lost in the
conversation over whether AI will get
rid of jobs. I like optimistic takes
about AI. So this is great. And like to
your point one TBD if this was good for
other countries but good for the US.
What else? What else you got? What other
hot takes?
>> Another another big hot take and this is
this is less like contrarian and more
just like I think people are truly
sleeping on it. I think people are truly
sleeping on how good cloud code is for
non-coders.
And I'll extend this to not just cloud
code, but Google just came out with the
Gemini CLI command line interface. Um,
so things like that. And I'll tell you
about um for people who are listening
that don't know what cloud code is.
Cloud code is just a command line
interface. So it's, you know, those
black terminals that programmers use.
Um, it's a command line interface that
you can boot up. Uh, it has access to
your file system. It knows how to use
any kind of terminal command and it
knows how to like browse the web, all
that kind of stuff. you can give it
something to do and it will go off and
it will run for like 20 or 30 minutes
and complete a task like autonomously
agentically. It's a uh especially with
Cloud Opus 4 that just came out. It's
like this gigantic leap forward in AI's
ability to um work by itself and and
Cloud Code can even spawn multiple sub
aents that do a bunch of tasks in
parallel and it's incredibly useful for
programmers like everybody inside of
every is using it all day every day.
like everyone's agent pill. They've got
like 15 agents doing all this kind of
stuff. It's crazy. But non-programmers
don't use it because it's intimidating
to use the terminal. But you can like
download, for example, you can download
all your meeting notes and put it in a
folder and just be like, "Okay, I want
you to read every single one of my
meeting notes and tell me something that
I do for example is tell me all the time
that I subtly avoided conflict." And it
will it writes a little to-do list for
itself. It can have like a little
notebook. it can like go and read each
little thing and then like write into
his notebook, go down a to-do list and
give you a summarized answer over
multiple turns. So it's not just like
stuffing everything into context, which
is what you'd be doing with like a, you
know, chatbt chat or a regular quad
chat. It's like actually processing
every single file that you give it. And
so I think it's incredibly powerful for
um any kind of task that involves
processing a lot of text. So, as a
simple way to think about this, you
basically have an agent on your local
computer that can read your local files
and do your bidding.
>> Yes, exactly. And um it can do that for
long amounts of time without going off
the rails.
>> Interesting. And so there's like a small
hurdle that non-technical people have to
overcome, which is using their terminal
and giving commands, but once they get
it running, it's just you talk to it in
English and ask it to do stuff.
>> Exactly. So the hot take here is just
claude code which most people think is
for engineers is the most underrated uh
tool for non-technical people.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> What are some other ways you imagine
people seeing this? This meeting note
example is really cool and I could see
people do using this. What else have you
seen or think?
>> Um something that I've done a lot. So
I'm a writer for a lot of my job and um
for example I love um and I know you're
going to ask me about books I love so
I'm going to give you a sneak peek which
is I love War and Peace. I just read it
for the third time.
>> Wow.
>> Um,
>> that's a long book.
>> It's so It's so long, but it's so good.
I think Toltoy is a brilliant writer.
And one thing that I wanted to do was I
was like, I want to inflect some of my
writing with some of Toltoy's style. And
the way I did that is um I think he's
incredible at these little subtle
sentences where he shows you what a
character is thinking and feeling just
by how they behave, like how they move
their face or like the mismatch between
the intonation in their voice and the
expression in their eyes. Like all that
kind of stuff. He's just like a an
incredible student of human behavior and
psychology. And so I just downloaded War
in Peace to my computer, which you can
do because it's public domain. And then
I had Claude read like the first three
chapters of War in Peace and pull out
all of those descriptions and make then
make a guide for itself for like how to
do des like character descriptions like
Pulsetor. And you could totally do this
with like a regular like opus command,
but you couldn't put all of War in Peace
into it. it would take a lot more
handholding to get it to do this and it
just sort of did this by itself like
without my like really intervening. It
also ended up like downloading I I had
it download a Russian version of War in
Peace and the English version and then
start comparing different scenes that I
love to like tell me about things that I
might have missed in the translations.
So like you can get as deep and weird
and nerdy for whatever sub field you
care about as you want to. Same thing
for like if you've got tons of customer
interviews or or like tons of customer
data you want to go through. It's like
incredibly powerful for for going and
figuring stuff out stuff out from big
data sets like that.
>> You actually inspired me to use this is
not what you're describing, but it's
also something that's very cool. This
going to sound so nerdy. I'm reading an
Karen right now based on
>> also Toltoy. And this is uh recommended
by a previous podcast guest and so I was
like, "All right, I got to read this."
Also very long. I'm on my Kindle. I'm
just like, "All right, 13% in. I've been
reading for months."
>> Hot take. I think Warm Piece is better
than Anacronina, especially for like a
tech person. But they're both good.
>> Okay, there there we go. There's my
year. Um,
I saw you tweet this use case that I
love that I've been using, which is just
while I'm reading, having chatbt voice
sitting around and then just asking it
questions because you don't actually
have to feed it the book. It knows the
whole book. Uh, and Anthropic just
shared this. I don't know if they shared
or someone found this in their legal
briefings that they actually bought tons
of books and scanned them themselves.
Yeah.
>> Is how they did fair use. And so it has
all this context. So just sitting there
asking it like what the heck is this
thing in Russian society uh is super
fun.
>> Okay. So this is awesome. So the tip
here is just coming back to your hotic
uh the tip is uh you basically can have
an agent using local files and doing all
kinds of cool stuff on your computer
versus having to upload it into into
projects or into your prompts and things
like that.
>> Yeah,
>> super cool. So the I guess the bet here
is that people are going to discover
this and start using this just
dayto-day.
>> I think they absolutely will. And I also
think probably the model companies are
going to start
>> making this more accessible. Like I
think one of the things that will just
come from cloud code and other things
like it into the everything else you use
whether it's on the web or wherever is
the original all the original AI apps
were pasting a chat box into an existing
UI. So you know you've got co-pilot it's
got a little it's got like the
autocomplete in the in the IDE. You've
got cursor. It's got a little sidebar
with a little chat. And the difference
with cloud code is you never look at the
code. It's not meant for coding. It's
not meant for coding by hand. It's meant
for you to say, "I want you to get
something done." And it goes and does
it. And I think we're just getting to a
point where for pretty much all of
these, you know, all the usual
applications, AI is going to be good
enough that we can get rid of the
interfaces more or less where you're
like digging into all the things that
it's actually doing and and it's you're
you're sort of interled with its um
execution and you're more just like I'm
delegating. is gonna go do it.
>> Yeah. I had uh cursor CEO Michael
Terrell on the podcast and this is his
big vision is what comes after code
>> and we don't be like exactly exactly and
I also just had the founder of base 44
on the podcast who sold you know built
this company sold 80 million bucks to
Wix and he shared that for the so he's
been around for six months the company
for the last three months he hasn't
touched a single line of front-end code
all base 44 and or sorry all cursor and
other tools he's using. So this is
happening.
>> Same thing for people inside of every
like no one is manually coding anymore.
>> Okay. Definitely need to talk about that
before we do. Uh any other hot takes
that you want to throw out there?
>> I have one other hot take um which is I
have a definition for AGI and so AGI is
like famously hard to define like what
it what does it mean for it to be
artificial artificial general
intelligence? The turning test was one
but like we pretty much blown past the
turning test in a lot of ways. So
we have no good one. Um and so what I
have noticed is that you can tell how
much better AI is getting by how long uh
a leash you can give it to do work. So
with copilot it was like a you can tab
complete and that was like the
beginning. Um with chatbt you ask it a
question and it it returns a response
and that's like maybe slightly better
than a tab complete. And then now with
with cloud opus 4 and Gemini and all
that kind of stuff like it can go off
and and work for also with deep research
it can go off and work for like 20 or 30
minutes. So that leash is getting longer
where um where you have to intervene and
I was thinking about this and it
reminded me of Winnott who's a child
psychologist. He wrote this book called
Playing in Reality. And his
conceptualization for what it means to
become an adult, uh what it means to go
from being an infant to a child to an
adult is when you're when you're first
born, you're effectively fused with
usually your mother, your caregiver.
Like there's no difference between you
and her or you and whoever your
caregiver is. And growing up is this
process of being gradually like let down
in certain moments where you can handle
being let down. So you learn that
there's a separation between you and
your caregiver. So for infants, it's
like instead of being like fused at the
hip for like every hour of every day,
you get left alone. U maybe it's like
you get left left alone to cry it out.
Like who knows if that's like the right
thing to do with infants. a lot of
consternation there, but like that's
teaching you that there's a separation
between you and your mom or you and your
dad. Like there's there's not going to
always be someone to pick you up. And
raising a child is about knowing when
they're ready to be let down a little
bit and have to stand up on their own.
So I think there's that same leash with
human development. It's like you get
longer and longer periods of time where
you can be on your own. So, we're still
in the kind of like 20 to 30 minutes is
like maybe maybe I don't know. I guess
you probably can't leave a toddler alone
for 20 to 30 minutes, but like, you
know, it's a little bit older than a
toddler.
>> Maybe 20 30 seconds.
>> Um, you you can with a toddler it's like
uh you can be in the same room but not
interacting with them total like every
single second um for for 20 for 20
minutes sometimes.
>> So, it's it's around there. And I think
there's a similar I think that we have
that a similar leash with AGI. And so I
think a good definition of AGI is when
does it become economically profitable
for people to run agents indefinitely?
So it just never turns off. It's a cloud
code that's always running. It's always
doing something. You just never turn it
off and you don't need to because like
you know that it's worthwhile to keep it
to keep it on. It's never waiting for
you to be like, "Okay, next thing."
It'll always respond to you when you're
like, "Okay, next thing." but it's off
just essentially living its life like a
teenager. And that is profitable for
you. You'd rather have it do that than
just wait for you to tell it what to do
next. And I think that's a good
definition of AGI.
>> And the profitable piece is also just
the cost of running that thing and
having it.
>> It's it's partly the cost and partly the
value. Um, and obviously you can like
game this a little bit and be like cool,
I'm just going to like tell Cloud to
like run in a loop forever. But like I'm
talking about more than that. like a
more widespread
more widespread adoption of agents that
that work all the time. And um and I
like the profitable thing because if it
costs a little bit of money and we're
the bar is profitability, then there's
like a it has to actually be doing
something useful for you to keep it on.
It's interesting how that also is very
the metaphor of a of a senior employee
and autonomy and essentially the more
autonomous they are, the less
instruction you have to give, the less
reviews you have to do is also just
directly correlated with how senior they
are.
>> Totally.
>> Okay, great. Uh, anything else along
these lines?
>> I mean, I have plenty of them. I think
I'm generally
like I hate the headlines that are like
it's going to replace jobs um or like
it's gonna unemploy twothirds of the
workforce. Like I don't think that's
true. I hate headlines that are like you
don't use your brain when you use chatbt
or like there another another good
headline is like um uh doctors alone
doctors plus AI or just AI like which
one is better? AI is better. Therefore
like doctors are um going to be outmoded
like all that stuff is I think pretty
dumb. So for the doctors plus AI
example,
um I think it's important to recognize
that using AI is a skill. And so if you
study doctors in a vacuum that like
don't really have a lot of experience
with AI,
yeah, you could probably create a
situation such that like it's better to
just to just use an AI and sometimes it
is going to be better, but there's a lot
there's like so many contexts that
doctors need to make decisions and do
things that it's really hard to take one
study and make any sort of conclusion
about that. And it's especially hard
when you're dealing with a technology
that's developing so rapidly that
doctors can't really be like expected to
be experts at it yet. But I would guess
in five or 10 years that will be totally
and completely different. For the
student example um or like the you know
AI turns your brain off example.
I think it's really important to
understand that in the history of
technology it has always been the case
that you give up certain skills in order
to get other ones. So, for example,
Plato was famously very skeptical of
writing because he thought it would harm
your memory, and it did. Uh, we don't
remember things quite as well as they
did back in the day because they had to
remember long epic poems to entertain
each other. But I think writing is a
worthwhile trade for having a slightly
worse memory. And I think something
similar is going on with with with AI
where yeah, you may you may be slightly
less engaged in certain tasks, but if
you use it right, you're going to be way
more engaged in other tasks where you
have much more power. And so you can
construct a study that says brain
connectivity goes down when you use AI
in the same way that you could construct
a study that says people's memory is
worse when they have writing skills. But
I don't think anyone would want to go
back to a world where no one was
literate. That is super interesting.
There's all these studies that are
showing the benefits of AI to students
with these studies in Nigeria and just
how fast people progress. So I I think
it's really important this context
you're sharing of that you will lose
some things but the gain the hope is the
gain is much higher and so far it seems
like it will be.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think people always,
especially at the beginning of a tech
hype cycle or a revolution paradigm
shift, it's always easy to underestimate
how quickly things are going to change.
And the example I always use is I live
in Brooklyn and the tailor down the road
down the street from me like doesn't
accept credit cards.
Like credit cards have been around for a
long time. So, uh it takes a long time
for technology like this to be adopted
even in the best case. And I think it's
really easy to underestimate
how
complex specific contexts are that
humans know how to like deal with. And
just because you can get a really good
score on a test, it it it's incredible.
I love AI. It's so incredible, but it
doesn't it doesn't actually give you an
intuition for um how difficult it is to
actually be replacing specific parts of
work or activities that you would do. I
think a really good thing to give you a
um maybe like a little bit of an
intuition for it um is I built this
thing over a weekend like a month ago
that was
um can 03
can it predict what I'm going to say in
a meeting?
It's like we it's a benchmark. It's a
it's the CEO benchmark. And the reason I
did that is because OpenAI's the gold
standard for OpenAI um for testing how
powerful a model is is they test they
they test it on their internal codebase.
So they say how good is the new model at
predicting what comes next in our
internal codebase because that's that's
not anywhere out out on the internet. So
it's a really good um it's a really good
benchmark for that. And so I was like
well my meeting transcripts aren't
anywhere on the internet. a lot of what
I say is on the internet and some of the
there's some overlap but be kind of
interesting and so I ran a bunch of the
frontier models on this on just like my
granola transcripts and they're pretty
bad. They are pretty bad and it's not
because they're not smart. Um there's a
real there's this real push now. Um Toby
from Spotify uh coined this term called
context engineering which is like
getting the context to the model uh the
right context at the right time like is
at least half the performance. And I
think that's 100% true. It's something
that I've been writing about for like 3
years. At the time I called it knowledge
orchestration. Um, I think context
engineering is is a better probably a
better term, but like uh it's totally
true and and and it's that's a very very
hard problem to solve. It's not just
like a oneshot problem where it's like,
you know, gigantic context bundle and
we're done. It's going it's I think it's
going to get better over time, but the
minute it gets good at predicting what's
what's gonna what I'm going to say next
in a meeting, I'm just going to use it
as a tool and that's going to change the
entire dynamic of what I say next in a
meeting. So, it's not as easy as it
seems.
>> Interesting. I imagine you can build a
GPT from that and then instead of having
a meeting with Dan now, just talk to
this thing and he'll make decisions.
>> Definitely. And I I I mean, we do this a
little bit. It's not the same as it's
not the same as having being able to
predict exactly what I'm going to say in
a meeting, but I think if you're a CEO
or founder or manager, it's really
stunning how much of your job is just
repeating yourself.
And that is one of the best things about
this AI particular AI revolution is that
you don't have to repeat yourself. And
so we had it like last quarter. I I tend
to set like one or two quarterly goals
and like one of my big goals for us last
quarter was don't repeat yourself. So I
don't want to ever say the same thing in
a meeting twice if I if I can help it.
Um, so for us, um, at every like one of
the big parts of every is we have a
daily newsletter
and I'm spending a lot of time like
giving feedback on headlines or giving
feedback on how do you write an intro or
like how is what is this idea any good?
Like that kind of stuff. And we've
started to codify all that into prompts
that basically it's not the same as
mimicking me. It can't exactly say
exactly what I'm going to say in a
meeting, but it pushes my taste out to
the edge so that
um writers who are not able to talk to
me, like by the time I see it, they've
already talked to like some simulation
of a simulation of me. And that's
incredibly powerful. Let's follow this
thread. This is exactly where I wanted
to go. I feel like the business you're
building, the team you're building, the
way you're operating is the very
bleeding edge of how companies will
operate and are trying to operate in
this AI era. You guys are trying to be
super AI first. Uh it's and it's super
aligned with just so much of how of your
writing. There's just like so much
reason to study what you guys are doing.
>> Yes. And this is benefiting all of us.
So, thank you.
So, first of all, just tell people what
the heck every is and then share a few
insights into just how you operate. Uh,
it's funny that you laugh, but whatever
is.
>> Everyone asked that cuz it's just it's
like a it's a very it's just it's a very
weird shape of a company that
>> you can actually see other companies
that have this shape from earlier eras,
but they're
>> it's a little bit it's less common. It's
it doesn't make as much sense and I
think it's newly enabled by AI and and
we can talk about why. Um but the way
the way that I typically talk about um
every is um we do ideas and apps at the
edge of AI. So the core of the business
is we have a daily newsletter. We've
been doing it for about 5 years. We have
about 100,000 subscribers. All the
people from the top AI labs read us. Um
anyone who's who's basically interested
in or working in AI at the frontier and
wants to know what's going on uh reads
us. We do a lot of like for example
whenever um whenever OpenAI or or
Anthropic drop a new model like we get
our hands on it early and then we get to
play with it and write about it which is
it's like my ideal job. I love it. It's
the best. I don't know if I can curse on
this podcast but it's the
>> perfect excellent use. Uh and you call
those vibe checks. Is that the
>> Yeah, we call them vibe checks. Um
>> which I think is really important
because and this gets to the next part
the the apps part of of what we do. I
think it's really important to do vibe
checks and and to call them vibe checks
because they're about how does it feel
to use this thing and how does it feel
to use it for work for things that you
would normally use it for um uh uh like
in your job or in your life because I
think um that captures something that
standard benchmarks just don't capture
and really can't. And the best people to
tell to write a vibe check are people
that are actually at the edge using it
for stuff. And so what we found over
time is we have we we love we think the
best writing and content about
technology is from people that are
actually using it and building with it.
And so we've always had this sort of
function where we're always building
little experiments um in addition to our
writing. And that that helps us write
great stuff. And that has turned into um
a suite of apps that we run internally.
And the people who uh are uh people who
are building those apps are also writers
and they're contributing to things like
vibe checks. So you get a really inside
look into how is this stuff being built
from people who are actually using it
every day and the suite of apps that we
have. Uh one's called Kora. We just
launched Kora publicly on the day that
we're recording this which is really
awesome. Um
>> congratulations.
>> Thank you. Uh you can think of it like a
chief of staff, an AI chief of staff for
your email. It helps you manage your
email with AI. It's very cool. We can go
into more of it later. Uh we have
another one called Sparkle uh which is
an AI file cleaner. We have another one
called Spiral that does content
automation with AI. We originally
incubated um Lex which is an AI document
writer which we spun out into its own
company and my every co-founder Nathan
runs that um and uh basically we bundle
everything together. So you pay one
price and you get access to all of the
software that we make and we're
constantly putting new stuff in the
bundle and I can tell you more about
like what kinds of things we like to
incubate and how do we like to incubate
it because I think there's there's a lot
of there's some really interesting
special things in there but I've been
blabbing for a while so I'll stop there.
There's also consulting firm which I
want to talk about, but let's hold off
on that.
>> We have consulting. We also do that. Um,
and that that is another that's like the
third leg of the stool in the business.
It doesn't fit quite as nicely into my
ideas and app streaming, but we um we
spend a lot of time with big companies
where we teach them how to basically how
to be AI first. We train all the people
on how to use AI and it's it's very
cool. It's it's really um it's really
fun and very a very important part of
what we do.
>> That feels like a billion dollar
business right there. I want to come
back to it. I think so because everybody
wants to learn this. Um, okay. So, share
a few ways that you guys operate. You
mentioned that you your team doesn't
write any code. Uh, what are just some
ways that allow you to operate this
efficiently? I know your team's really
small. You have daily newsletter. You
have three four products. You have a
consulting arm. How big is the team of
everything?
>> We have 15 people.
>> 15 people. Okay. So, just give us
insight into some of the ways you
operate that are kind of at the bleeding
edge.
>> Okay. So, a couple things. Um, one, and
I think everyone should do this, is we
have an AI, a head of AI operations. I
sit with her once a week, and every time
I'm doing something repetitively, I'm
like, we put it in a to-do list and
she's just constantly like building
prompts and building workflows and stuff
like that so that I and everyone else on
the team is are just automating as much
as possible. Um, and I think that has
been a big unlock because it's really
hard to if you're working in a job all
day, you're fighting fires and like
you're you're like, "Okay, am I going to
do this in the way that I know how or am
I going to do it in the new way that
might not work? Like, I'm going to spend
a bunch of time in Zapier like building
some no code automation. I don't want to
do that." And having an AI operations
lead lets you basically identify those
things and have them solved without
people who are doing the work actually
getting in uh getting like having to
take time to do it which I think makes
it much more likely it happens. There's
always a trick with that where it's like
you have to make sure it gets used. So
it's basically you're developing little
applications internally. Um but if
you're good at making applications
people use it's great. Highly recommend
having an AI AI operations lead. I
imagine you saw the CF Kora tweeted
about this wanting to hire exactly this
sort of person.
>> Yeah.
>> So clearly this is a trend. So the idea
is this per like your point that this
needs to be somebody who's who's outside
of the day-to-day work of the company
and is specifically focused on helping
the team be more efficient with AI?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And then is this person mostly just you
automating you or can they help other
people?
>> No, she helps she helps everyone
basically. Okay, where we're starting
right now is with the uh editorial
operation. So, there's so much stuff in
the editorial operation where I or our
our editor and chief Kate like Kate is
constantly doing like little small copy
edits to make sure everything is like in
every style and it takes like hours
hours a day. Um, and so now Opus is at a
point where you can give it a style
guide and a prompt and it'll go through
uh go through anything you're writing
and copy edit it, which is amazing. Um,
the trick is it's not just building
that. You also have to get Kate to be
like, "Did you put this through the
prompt yet?" Um, anytime someone gives
her something. So, there's a little bit
of like behavioral update too that has
to happen, which I think is a really
interesting organizational challenge.
And I think for us it's a little easier
because everybody inside the org is like
very AI first and just like wants to go
do it. Um we don't have anyone really
who's like I don't know I don't really
want to do this and and that's that's a
whole that's a whole different challenge
which I think a lot of organizations
face but there's always a problem of
getting people to use it.
>> That is super cool. What is her
background this AI operations person?
>> She her name is Katie Parrot. Um she
does a lot she actually does a lot of um
ghost writing for us. So she also when
um when people inside of every who are
builders um often they just write
themselves but like sometimes they want
help and she'll help um help them write
about like whatever whatever they're
working on. So that's that's how she
started with us. She still does that but
she also spends a lot of time doing the
AI operations stuff. Um
and then before that she was she worked
at Animals which is a content marketing
agency like one of the top content
marketing agencies and they're very
processoriented. And I think the reason
Katie is so good is because she's she's
incredibly good at at that kind of
process stuff or like thinking about
that. Um, but she's also a great writer
and she's also um just incredibly uh
excited about AI. She just like wants to
tinker and wants to use it and like that
was a thing that got me to be like,
okay, you should just come and do that
instead of just ghost writing. We should
add this to your plate. And it's it's
been really fantastic. So I think that's
a at minimum you really just want
someone who's just like I want to
tinker. I want to build stuff. Um
there's also people who have a little
bit more of that process orientation. I
think that is important. Um and to the
extent they understand the craft of the
thing that they're trying to build for
that also helps a lot.
>> This is an amazing tip. I feel like
everyone's going to start hiring these
people.
>> I I think so. There's there's a couple
other people who talk about this. So I
heard Rachel Woods who's another um sort
of she thinks a lot about AI stuff. she
she's talking about I think it's
becoming like it's becoming a thing and
and I think it's I think it's really
important and and it just like bleeds
out into every other part of the org. So
like we're doing this inside of the
editorial or but there's a lot of copy
that goes out on Kora and by the way
Kora is spelled C O R A so it's
different from q o um slightly confusing
there's a lot of copy that goes out in
Kora or spiral or sparkle that we want
to have that same every quality bar for
and so we have you know engineers
sending Kate like here's the Figma file
like can you go and like do copy edits
and that sucks for everybody and Kate is
one person and it's just really hard to
to do that. So one thing that we did um
Nateesh who's one of the programmers uh
engine engineers on Kora built a cloud
code command that just uses that prompt
and checks through the entire codebase
um for for all the copy edits and then
creates a pull request on GitHub and
then sends the pull request to Kate. So
she's just like looking at the pull
request and being like does this make
sense? And so you can translate that
prompt into, for example, a format that
engineers can use and suddenly your
engineering team is writing marketing
copy in the style you want. I think
that's so cool.
>> That is extremely cool. Uh I want to
take I'm going to take us on a little
tangent. You keep mentioning Claude and
I'm I'm curious just what is kind of in
the stack of tools that you find
yourself using that your team ends up
using. It seems like Claude is a core
part of it.
>> I do love Claude. I would say I'm
generally
my first thing that I open is 03. I'm
like a chatbt boy. Um and I think 03 is
super high quality. I think um it's
great for writing. It's great for
coding. It's great for all that stuff.
And what it has that really makes a
difference still from from Claude is it
has memory and I just love that. Like
I've spent so much time yelling at
Chacht about like I need my writing to
be punchy and concise, you know, and it
just knows that now. So I think when I
ask it to write something for me, it's
like actually better than yours or maybe
not yours but like you your average your
average CHBT user and I also find like I
use it a lot for self-reflection and
personal growth type stuff. So it knows
me so when I send it a meeting trans I'm
like how did I do? It's like well you
did that thing that you normally do but
you're way better on this other thing
and I I like that. I think that's I
think that's really great.
>> So dayto-day 03 that's my that's my
go-to. I think claude opus is first of
all cla code everyone inside every
that's basically what we use um if
you're building something you're using
cloud code it it's crazy it's so good um
Gemini just came out with something so
I'm very excited to try that um because
I think that that's the model that we
use most for the apps that we build like
inside the apps u it's incredibly
powerful and it's incredibly cheap which
is great so I want to try the CLI tool
they came out with we also use codeex a
bit um which is OpenAI's coding tool.
And that's for like I want a one-off
self-contained like I want to pick off
this little feature. What else do I use?
Uh going back to Claude, Claude Opus 4
can do something that no other model
except one other model that I can't talk
about. Um
>> it can do something that no other model
can do.
>> We won't go there. We don't want to get
you in trouble. Okay, go on.
But yeah, no other model can do this,
which is
earlier versions of Claude and I think
generally versions of other models when
you ask them, is this piece of writing
any good?
Claude, for example, would always give
it a B+ and then if you change if if you
did another turn of the same
conversation, you're like, I updated
this, it would always go to A minus. And
then if you give it another turn, it
would go to like A, you know? So it like
doesn't have the same kind of gut. It's
like it's sort of thinking about what
you probably want to hear too much. Um,
and there's various methods that you can
use to like prompt prompt engineer
around this, like give it a template or
like whatever. And they sort of worked,
but it just still doesn't doesn't have
that thing where it's like can it tell
if writing is interesting or any good?
Does it have that gut sense? And Opus 4
has it. Uh, it's really wild. And I
think that's I think that's super
important because it opens up all these
use cases where you might want to use a
language model as a judge. So for us for
example um we're working on a new
version of our product spiral which does
content automations. You've used that in
the past and we're doing a essentially
cloud code but for content um style
product where you know you say I want I
wanted to write a tweet. You give it all
the documents. It has a bunch of
memories. It creates a to-do list for
itself and then it goes and writes. And
one of the things that is so interesting
is now because it can um it can judge
things. Part of its to-do list is okay,
I wrote three tweets. I'm going to like
judge whether I think these are any
good. And then it can improve before it
comes back to you. And that's just like
a huge huge unlock that we were
struggling for like three months to like
build this like crazy system to like try
to get it to judge writing and then Opus
4 just like one shot at it and we're
like great this product works. Let's
like let's start shipping it. Um so
yeah, I love it for that.
>> Are there any other AI tools that you
just use regularly? You mentioned
Granola even outside of the bottles. So
what are what are some that you think
maybe people are sleeping on?
>> I use Granola. So I used to use uh Super
Whisper and Whisper Flow which I think
are fantastic. We have an internal
version of that uh called Monologue that
will be shipping in like a month or so
that I I use now but you can think of
them as roughly equivalent and I think
like generally speechtoext interfaces
are the future and more people should be
using them and more people should be
building them as affordances. Um I use I
use we use notion all the time and I
specifically use their meeting
recording. I think that's most I think
that's mostly the stack.
>> Okay, that was really helpful and super
interesting. This episode is brought to
you by Postthog, the product platform
your engineers actually want to use.
Post Hog has all the tools that
founders, developers, and product teams
need like product analytics, web
analytics, session replays, heat maps,
experimentation, surveys, LLM
observability, air tracking, and more.
Everything Post Hawk offers comes with a
generous free tier that resets every
month. More than 90% of customers use
Post Hawk for free. You are going to
love working with a team this
transparent and technical. You'll see
engineers landing pull requests for your
issues and their support team provides
code level assistance when things get
tricky. Posthog lets you have all your
data in one place. Beyond analytics
events, their data warehouse enables you
to sync data from your Postgress
database, Stripe, HubSpot, S3, and many
more sources. Finally, their new AI
product analyst Max AI helps you get
further faster. Get help building
complex queries and setting up your
account with an expert who's always
standing by. Sign up today for free at
postthhog.com/lenny
and make sure to tell them Lenny sent
you. That's postthogg.com/lenny.
Let's go back to ways that your team
operates. You mentioned having Kate, was
that her name?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Uh what else? What else do you do
that you think other companies should be
doing or will eventually start doing? So
the Kora team uh which is Kieran and
Nateesh basically that's the team two
people
>> that's the team. Yeah.
>> Well it's Kora it's it's Kieran Nateesh
and 15 claude code instances. So it's
you know it's more powerful than you
think.
>> This is I love that this is just again a
glimpse into the future.
Um, one of the things that we do that I
think is really cool and they basically
invented this like I had nothing to do
with this is um, they invented the idea
of compounding engineering.
So
basically for every unit of work you
should make the next unit of work easier
to do.
So an example is um
in a clawed code world where you're not
coding a lot, you end up spending a lot
of time essentially typing PRDs. Like
here's a document with exactly the stuff
that I need to I need to do, right? Um
and so you could just be like, "Okay,
cool. That's my job now. I'm going to
just like write PRDs." Um and so each
successive PRD, it's the same amount of
work. Or you could spend a little bit of
time being like, there's a sort of
platonic ideal of a PRD, and what I'm
going to do is write a prompt that can
take my rambling thoughts and then turn
that into a PRD. And so you spend a
little bit of work to make all of the
next like PRDs that you're doing easier
to easier to write because you're
writing le less of them. And so finding
those little speedups where every time
you're building something you're doing
you're making it easier to do that that
same thing next time I think gets you a
lot more leverage in your engineering
team. And so like yeah we have Kieran
and Nesh and you know Kora has it just
came out of it just became public. It
was in private beta has 2500 active
users and like there's like millions of
emails going through it and like that's
one of the products that we do as a 15
person company. It's It's kind of crazy.
>> It It is crazy. How do you do this speed
up thing? Is it um prompts that they
continue to refine?
>> A lot of it is prompts and automations
and stuff like that. Yeah.
>> Got it. For automations, what's the
tool? What's the tool used for
automating automations?
>> What they're using a lot of is is Cloud
Code. So, you can do slash commands in
Cloud Code, which are like repeated
prompts that you're that you're doing.
>> Got it. Okay. So basically they're
building a library of prompts that make
the process of here's what I want to
build to a good solid PRD that you can
feed into cloud code. Yeah. More correct
and more efficient.
>> Exactly.
>> Super interesting. And and they just
keep like a file or they put this into a
project. Is that how they store?
>> It's a GitHub. It's like a GitHub. It's
like in their GitHub where they they can
like share it with each other. Another
thing that they do which I think is very
cool is they they use a bunch of clouds
at once, but then they're also using
like three other agents. So they love
there's there's an agent called Friday
that they love.
>> That's like a that's a that's an AI
Asian product called Friday.
>> Yeah.
>> Heard of that. Okay.
>> Um there's another one called Charlie
that they really love. And in
particular, I think the thing they like
about Charlie, we have a whole video
about this which um I can send to you.
>> Yeah, I'll point to it.
>> They did like a you know S tier through
Ftier of AI agents which I think is so
funny. Um, and um, one of the things I
really like about about Charlie is that
it lives in GitHub. So you can when you
get a when you get a pull request, you
can just be like at Charlie like can you
can you check this out? Um, and that
seems to seems to work really well to
have like different agents that have
like maybe slightly different
perspectives. It's like different
people, you know, that have different
perspectives and have different taste.
Like you can I Kieran is he's like a one
of those like ra like serious Rails
files who are just they just love Rails
and they love the way that Rails feels
and so I think he has a real sensitivity
to okay this agent you know Chukg for
example it's very it feels very tur and
minimal and and professional and so and
it has a particular kind of style that
maybe he likes versus I don't know quad
is a slightly different style and I
think that's I think all of that is so
interesting that that these things have
personalities and that those that that
changes what you might want to use it
for or why you might want to use three
of them at once.
>> That is so fascinating. Uh it makes me
think about Peter Deng's conversation
again where he talks about his hiring
strategy in one of his key lessons and
he ended up hiring like the current head
of product for JT GPT the current head
of marketing at JGPT the current head of
engineering like because he hires the is
incredible people and his philosophy is
to hire a team of Avengers where
everyone is strong at certain things and
together they are the perfect team
versus everyone versus like the best at
everything and it's interesting that you
can always do that with different
product different agents from different
companies.
>> You definitely can.
>> And it makes me feel like there's a
bigger market than people think
potentially where people will want
different companies agents, not just all
Devons or not all Codex.
>> I think there really is. It's definitely
not like one one agent to rule them all.
So
>> interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh my god. The two people on the Kora
team are what's their background? Are
they both engineers or what are they?
>> They're both engineers. Kieran's got
this like crazy background where
>> they both have really interesting
backgrounds. Karen's got this crazy
background where he was previously like
VP and ange at uh at a startup. So like
was effectively like the CTO of a of of
a startup or maybe two startups. Um and
uh and was was one of the founders and
then but before that he was like a
composer like a professional composer
and before that he was a baker. So we
did like a team retreat in France last
year and he like taught us all how to
make croissants. My croissant was
horrible. His was like beautiful. Um,
>> seems that
>> and generally I think like that kind of
multi-dimensional type of talent is the
kind of person that I love having at
every like because we're all
generalists. We all want to use AI for
all these like weird awesome creative
things and someone who has that
background is going to have a good taste
for not only agents but what should the
landing page look like or whatever which
I think is increasingly important where
you're trying to scale a team of
generalists of 15 people to like five
products. So that's Kieran's background.
Natasha's background is I'm jealous
because he only started learning to code
when Chachu came out. Um he had wanted
to learn to code forever and he's only
known how to code in an AI era. And I
keep telling him, dude, like I I learned
to program in middle school from books.
Like I had to go to Barnes & Noble and
like buy a book. And there was nothing I
couldn't Google anything about like how
this how this why this function wasn't
working.
>> Tag overflow even back then.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There wasn't tag overflow.
there's like weird BBNet forums and
stuff that like I was like 12 and I
probably shouldn't have been on there or
whatever. So uh it's he has gone so much
faster than any other engineer I think
like in a preAI era and I see the same
thing in the rest of the company like I
think there's this huge question about
um what happens when kids uh like entry-
level jobs are taken away by AI and my
take is like that that's worth thinking
about and it's it's possible that that
might be a problem at some point but my
take is whenever I see a kid with CHBT,
I'm like, "Holy [__] they're going to
go so so much faster than any other
person that I've worked with, like we
have this guy, Alex Duffy, who works
with us. Um, he writes for Context
Window and he he just launched um we
taught AIS how to how to play diplomacy
with each other. Um, which is really
cool. And he did that whole thing and
he's I think he's really really really
really talented. And when he came to us
like I guess almost a year ago now it
was one of those classic cases which
I've seen like over and over at every
which is you have great ideas but you're
not a good writer yet and it's really
hard for me to do anything with you
until you're good enough at it. So I
have to give you like small little
things until you get better and blah
blah whatever. And what I noticed with
him is he was just making a year like he
made like a year's worth of progress in
like two months because every time I sat
down with him and told him, "Okay,
here's how you tell a story. Here's how
you think about a headline." Like he
recorded all of it, put it into a
prompt, and like he never made the same
mistake twice. And I think he's so much
accelerated from where he would have
been because of this stuff. And I see
that in lots of other parts of the or
so. So Natasha is another good example.
And so I think generally people are
going to figure out that like some
20-year-old with CHBT subscription is
like super powerful if you just like
mentor them. And I think that's great.
Man, there's so many threads I could
follow here. Like there's all this fear
of entrylevel people will never like the
roles are disappearing for entry level
people and so how will we ever have
senior people if these people can't
learn to do things as an entry- level
person? And what you're saying is chat
GPT and these tools help you accelerate
really quickly. So you don't really need
to be at the bottom rung for a long
time.
>> Yeah. You're effectively like learning
how to be one level above um the entry
level from the beginning. And you have
to and this is sort of my my whole
allocation economy thesis where when you
look at what skills are going to be
valuable in the AI era. Um one big group
of skills are the skills of managers.
Today they're human managers. Tomorrow
everyone's a model manager. right now um
AI um is not like right now management
skills are not broadly distributed
because it's very expensive another
expensive thing that um so 8% of the
workforce is managers it's now going to
be much cheaper to manage um so more
people are going to have to do it and so
that's the thing that um
kids 20-year-olds whatever I see now are
going to start to have to learn in
addition to you know they're it's not
like you can just say like, "Okay, go do
it." And then come back. Like, you have
to be able to go into the work that's
being done and help make it better. But
they're learning both at the same time.
They're learning how to manage and how
to do the actual work so that they're
they're good at it.
>> And the managing here is managing
agents, right?
>> Yeah. You're managing AI. Yeah.
>> And so this is a good coming back to
your point about how this this core team
and I guess you said everyone every
doesn't write code, zero code written.
Now it's just managing agents that are
writing code for you.
>> Yeah.
Okay, I don't I've never heard of a
company at this stage. So, this is
extremely cool.
So, the workflow is they give it here's
what I want. I refine it using this cool
prompts library that they've that they
build on and agents build code, write
the code, then basically the time is
spent reviewing code and then reviewing
the output. What does it look like? What
does it feel like? And then continuing
to refine.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow. So, you guys are at where Michael
from Cursor said we will be. So we I
chatted with him a few months ago. He
said in a year this is where he thinks
thing will be. We're we're not looking
at code anymore. You guys are already
there. Although you're looking at code.
Okay. You're still looking at code.
>> They they definitely are looking at
code. Um so you know you're doing a code
review before you anything. Um and I do
think like Danny who runs spiral which
is the uh cloud code for content tool I
was talking about that we're building.
>> You know he spent a couple of days like
digging into the internals of some third
party library that we were interested
in. um just because it's like it's
helpful to know. It's helpful to like
understand those things, but then he's
not actually like writing any code once
he understands it. He's just like off
telling Cloud Code what to do. And I
think that's um I think that's that's
really that's really important. This is
an insane milestone we're hitting here.
Like there's this, you know, sense we're
getting to a place where you don't need
to really understand code. You don't
have to write any code. Like we'll get
there and like you guys are there. I
think this is like so easy to overlook
how wild this is. You have a product
team not writing code at all.
>> It is really wild. I think it's really
wild in particular just like having a
small group of people that have
everyone's multi-dimensional, everyone
like has all these different skills.
Everyone's a generalist. Um everyone's
AI forward. So what you can do in an
environment like that with a just still
a small team is crazy. And you're kind
of inventing all these new principles
for like how do we work together, how do
we do engineering, all that kind of
stuff. Um, and I think that's what makes
the writing like that that's why I like
doing that is because the writing that
we do from that I think is really good
because we can talk about it from a from
a sort of position of experience. Um,
and but I do want to say something else
which is we're not at a point yet where
the people that work at every could do
what they do if they didn't know how to
code.
>> Yeah, this is what I was going to ask.
which is a a different bar and I think
for a long time it's going to be
valuable to know how to code for a long
time. Um but this has been this is this
is like a a progression that is not a
new progression. So for example
when I was in middle school learning to
code the the new hot thing was scripting
languages which is like Python and
JavaScript. And if you were but if you
were a real programmer, you would
understand the language underlying
Python and JavaScript which was which is
that's written in C. Um and scripting
languages like weren't like weren't
totally real. And in order to like
really do anything interesting, you had
to be be able to learn both parts of the
stack. Same thing for C programmers. Um
when I guess in the 70s C was invented,
it was like you got to learn you got to
be able to write assembly.
Um and English is just like a layer on
top of scripting languages. So, I think
all those all of those things were right
in the sense that there's um especially
during transitions, there's a lot of
reasons why it's important to be able to
go down a layer in the stack. And it
gets less and less frequent over time,
but that still takes a long time. And
there's sometimes when even if you're a
JavaScript or Python programmer, it's
useful to know like how how all that how
that stuff works, how it's written, and
see how it's how it's implemented. It's
today it's much less important than it
used to be, but that took like 10 or 20
years. And I think that's the same thing
is going to be true for programming.
Like having that skill is super
important and will accelerate you
significantly. It will sort of start to
get less important over time, but we're
not close to that yet.
>> Okay, that's a really important point.
I'm glad you went there. So, do you have
a sense of how far we might be from you
hiring someone to build another product
that isn't an engineer,
>> like a real SAS product? Because
>> Yeah. So, like, hey, we have this idea.
We want to bring someone on to actually
lead it
>> very far. like not even not within
sight. But there's a lot of things that
could be products that are a layer a
level down from that that I think that
you could do almost now. So like an
example um we were talking about DIA um
the browser uh from the the new AI
browser from the browser company. Dia
has these things called skills um which
are effectively like little you know AI
apps that you can run in the browser.
You can prompt them and and they run on
the web page and do work for you. a
nontechnical person could build that.
Same thing for like um custom GBTs from
chat GBT. Um the non techchnical person
can definitely build that. So I think
while I will I will definitely maintain
that we're not anywhere close to anybody
being able to like build a conventional
SAS app with zero programming knowledge
aside from just like a demo. There are
going to be other forms of software. Um
one of my things is like software is
becoming content. There's going to be
other forms of software that don't look
like the software of today, but you can
run start and run as a business as a
nontechnical person even if you don't
know how to code and that'll happen very
soon if I mean it's already kind of
happening. It's just it doesn't look
like the thing that you're asking about.
It's like it's sort of like the
difference between a Hollywood movie and
like a YouTube video.
>> Okay. I think that's really reassuring
to a lot of people. Basically, what
you're seeing is AI just supercharges
people who have a skill and allows them
to do a lot more.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Is there any other way that you
guys operate that is really interesting
that might be worth sharing that helps
you operate really quickly, helps you do
more with less?
>> I I mean I I would love to talk about
our like how we think about building
products. Um like what products to build
like what do we end up building because
I think that there's something
>> sort of special about it that
>> probably there's a playbook that is
useful for people.
>> So when I think about this is this has
only sort of snapped into focus
recently. So a lot of this was just like
doing it intuitively without really a
thought for it. But when I think about
the kind of things that we have ended up
incubating, it's basically it goes back
to something I said at the beginning
which is there are these things that
were historically really expensive um
that only rich people or big companies
could buy. So a chief of staff for your
a chief of staff for your email. Um I
think a therapist or like a lawyer is
another interesting example. um uh
someone to like organize your closet or
organize your organize your computer is
another example, someone to ghostrite
for you. Um that are uh becoming orders
of magnitude cheaper so that everyone
can use them even if you're at a small
startup. Um and so basically like when
you're running like we are sort of this
AI first company,
you're running into these all these
little things where you're like I wish I
had a ghostriter right now. But ghost
writers are really expensive. Or I wish
I had a lawyer, but it wouldn't cost me
like $25,000. Lawyers are really
expensive and and there's a lot more
demand for those services than can be
fulfilled because they're so expensive.
And what AI does is it allows you to be
like, "Oh, I could just use cloud for
that. I can use CHBT for that." Um, and
so you're
uh you're able to you're able to use the
the demand that you have that like we
can we can afford a lawyer. we have
ghost writers, but like there's a lot
more that we can't do because we can't
afford it. So, we still have our lawyer
and we still have our ghost writers, but
we just do a lot more of that stuff. Um,
and um, so we notice that we start to
then use like CHBT and Claude first,
these general purpose tools to try it
and see is this useful? Does this
actually work? All that kind of stuff.
And then if it does, we will like
unbundle it into its own separate thing
that um becomes an app. And and I think
what's really special about this time is
the entire game board has been like
totally reset in terms of things you can
build where you know 5 years ago it was
like you're going to build another notes
app like we've been building notes app
for forever like another B2B SAS app
like it's all the same stuff like
slightly different packaging and now
it's like totally new territory no one
knows what's going on no like everyone's
inventing it as as as it happens right
all these new workflows are being
created in a very similar similar way to
I don't know for example when
spreadsheets were first a thing on
computers like we were figuring out all
these new workflows on spreadsheets they
got unbundled into B2B SAS same thing
for CHT and cloud
um and what's really cool is you can be
like cool I'm using I'm using CHG for
this it's really useful for me and you
might be like one of the first people to
like really notice that um and then
because everybody that works at every is
AI first and came to us because they
reads every they read every so they all
have the we all have the same vibe and
we're all kind of doing similar stuff.
They become our first our first users.
So, we measure the success of the
product by like is it a banger inside of
every um like monologue the the the app
that I was talking to you about like
everyone just started using it and we're
like okay we've got something here. Um
and what's what's really interesting
then is if everyone inside of every uses
it and people read every they have a
similar vibe to us too. So they become
the next set of users. And that's a
really I think interesting like pipeline
for building applications or building
apps. It's a totally new like green
field so that all the stuff you're
thinking about like it's probably new
which is really cool. And over time what
I think is organizations like ours
people who are playing at the edge we're
doing things that in like 3 years
everybody else is going to be doing. So
it may be kind of niche for now but it
will be a big deal in 3 years when
everyone else has the same needs that we
do. That is really cool. Uh what I'm
hearing is GPT rappers are a good idea
and are worth building.
>> I I 100% think GPT rappers are amazing
and they've been much maligned for
absolutely no reason and um people don't
understand how absolutely valuable they
are.
>> I think there's also just uh you guys
are you raised the sip seed round. Uh I
want to so this is a good time to maybe
talk about that just like these products
don't have to become some mega billion
dollar hit. Yeah,
>> you kind of have this portfolio of
companies, you have the content
business. So, I think there's a really
interesting approach to the how big
these need to get to be successful.
Maybe just talk about that.
>> Yeah, I I really want every to be an
institution um that teaches people um
how to live a better, more human life
with technology, particularly with AI,
and both like teaches them how to do it
with writing um and the content we make
and then builds tools for them to do
that. And um but I think fundamental to
building an institution is at least for
me the way I would like to do it is um I
want internally it to feel like this
creative playground where we have the
opportunity to like take risk and do
stuff and do weird stuff that like just
doesn't make any sense. We can't justify
anyone but we just feel like it would be
fun. Um and so I think I'm always
playing with that dynamic tension
between institution serious. We want
this to be like lasting and important
and it should just be fun. Like let's
play around. And I think having that
tension is like really valuable. And so
I've always been like sort of hesitant
to raise a lot of money because I think
it locks like locks you into like having
to be that serious thing that's like
totally going for it. And there's lots
of companies that figure out that
balance, but just for me like personally
as a founder, I'm like I want to keep
the optionality alive and I want to keep
the kind of playful feeling alive. And I
think part of that comes from I know
like I have the control to do what I
want more or less. Um there's probably
also some like deeper psychological
things going on there which I'm happy to
talk about if you want to get into it.
Um but you know I think there's also
just that that's that's kind of what I
want. And so when we started every we
raised like a very small 700k preede
round and this was at the the height of
the creator economy. So we both we both
started our newsletters. You and I
started our newsletters around the same
time. It was like the hypiest, craziest
thing. People were throwing money
around. It was like wild. Um, so but we
raised 700k because it was like, I want
to raise enough for us to be able to
experiment, have a little cash cushion,
but not so much that it locks us into
anything. And we like sent an email to
all of our investors being like, and
you're one of our investors, so you've
probably got this email.
>> Tiniest tiny investor, but I'm I'm in
there. I'm in there.
>> Uh, we sent an email to everyone being
like, "This is probably not a venture
business, so you should not expect us to
raise again." And we even raised on this
slightly modified safe that gave
everyone the option to convert to equity
in three years even if we didn't raise
more money. Um so we we did it in a way
that allowed us the option to get really
big and do the traditional thing and
also the option to do the do it the way
we want to do it. Um maybe it's not a
huge business but we love it. That's
great. Um, and we did the same thing for
this recent round where we raised up to
2 million from Reed Hoffman and um,
Starting Line VC. And we did it as what
I've been calling a SIP seed round,
which is basically they've committed $2
million, but we can pull it down
whenever we want. And it's we just do it
on a safe at a set cap. Um, and for me
that was that's really helpful because
it allows me psychologically to take a
lot more risk. like I don't if we go to
zero on the bank account I can get more
money great I don't have to think about
it but what's also really helpful is I'm
not and the rest of the team is not
staring at a gigantic number in the bank
account being like cool like we can burn
this let's burn it um and also for our
investors like
I I think Reed very much wants us to
succeed but like I don't think he he
cares like what what size of business
this is like I think he's more
philosophically aligned with the thing
that we're trying to do and if it
becomes a huge business, he's psyched
for it. Um, and I think that kind of
alignment is what I was looking for
because I think there's this core
creative spirit to the thing that I want
to maintain and I really care about
having um a big impact, but I think
there's a lot of ways to have an impact
and one of them is building a $10
billion business. I think um another way
is like really changing how people see
the world, see themselves in the world.
And I think that's what stories do. And
um you you don't necessarily sometimes
you do that by building a gigant
gigantic company, but you don't
necessarily always have to do that. Like
a lot of the stories that we care about
most are from people who maybe they
maybe they weren't rich at all. Um and
so I really like creating this place
where we can make a really good business
and I care a lot about that, but also
the the core of the soul of it is um
changing about changing how people see
themselves in the world. I love that
you've kind of uh innovated a new like a
middle ground way of fundraising, not
bootstrap and not just regular VC. It's
a six seed.
>> And I love that this two mill like you
know if I raise 50 million it'd be like
okay I get it. Let's not put 50 million
in our bank account. But you do that
with 2 million.
>> It's too much for us. We can't we don't
want to see that in our account.
>> That's another thing and you know we'll
see how this ages. Like I might be back
here in two years crying the blues
because like we didn't raise enough
money or whatever. Who knows? Um but
that's the other thing is I do think we
can get so much further with with very
small amounts of money like Kora I think
all in to build Kora we've spent maybe
300k maybe that's crazy because
>> includes salaries. Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> This product
>> um was not even technically possible
even if you had billions of dollars like
three years ago. not possible because
you can't do email summarizing and like
automatic responses and all that kind of
stuff without GBT. So, not only was it
totally impossible, but now we can get
with two engineers like we can get, you
know, the the amount done that would
would have taken a team of like 20
people.
And I think that's, you know, that means
that we need less money. And I don't
think that VC has really caught up to
that.
yet. Um, and I think there are other
companies that are doing there's like a
term called like seedstropping. So,
there are other companies that are like
kind of starting to wake up to this too.
And I'm curious about how it changes the
VC model for sure. For us, like we have
a specific like incubation model, which
is a bit different from from a VC model.
And I think um there's some
differentiation in the stuff that that
we can do with founders, which is kind
of cool. But um yeah, we're we're I'm
just trying to figure out like
a shape that works for me and that's
different from other people and we'll
see how this goes.
>> We'll revisit in a couple years.
>> Yeah, seems like it's going great from
the outside. I want to ask about a
couple other things before we wrap up.
One is around this consulting arm that
you have. I think it's really
interesting because like I said, I feel
like this could be a billion dollar
business. I feel like every company
right now is trying to figure out what
the hell what the hell's everyone else
figured out that we're not doing. Uh
I've had so many emails from chief
product officers at companies being like
can you introduce me to some chief
product officers that have done cool
things with AI that we should learn from
like so many people all and I just
introduce them to each other and it's
cool because you guys are basically
solving that problem for a lot of
companies. So uh one is just maybe share
a bit about what that side of the
business for folks and then two I feel
like you I imagine you've seen companies
that have done this really well have
adopted AI things have worked really
well they found really good productivity
gains and then you found companies that
don't what do you find is the difference
between those two I love this question
um and I have a very specific opinion
about this um so one yeah the consulting
arm basically like we spend all of our
time playing around with new models
writing about them and building stuff
with them and we have a big audience So
naturally like we've gotten companies
over time being like can you just come
and teach us how to do this and so we
started to do that. This is you know
pretty nent. It's probably been over the
last like 6 to9 months but like it's a
pretty big business now. Um like it's
our it's it'll probably double this
year. Like last year we did about a
million. Um maybe it'll be maybe it'll
be more this year. We'll see. It depends
on a couple we have a couple big
contracts out so it might be way more
than that. Um
>> billion. I I predict a billion dollars
in a few years. But yeah, basically
people are like, can you come help us
learn how to do this? So what we do is
um we spend some time going and
researching your organization. So we go
in and try to understand like what is
what are all the different teams doing?
What are the repetitive tasks? Some of
like some of the stuff we were talking
about earlier. Um and then what we will
do is uh first we present a little
report tells you like here's everything
that we found. Here's um not only that,
but you have a chatbot where you can
chat with all the interviews that we did
and you can pull out your own insights.
We have a whole dashboard where it shows
you like here's here are the teams that
are really into this. Here are the teams
that are not. Here's like how much um uh
how much leverage you might be able to
get on different teams based on the
interviews and based on the AI analysis.
It's pretty cool. Um and this is like
that's an app that I like vibe coded
like over a weekend with Devon like a
year ago and then um Alex runs the part
of the consulting like has helped
upgrade it. Um uh then what we do is we
have a training curriculum. So we go in
and train each team that and we
customize it based on um the interviews
that we do because one of the
interesting things about AI is it's such
a general purpose technology and I think
people who work inside companies 10% of
them are like I'm super curious about
this. 10% are like I will never touch
this and 80% are like if you tell me how
to do it for my job I'll do it. And so
we customize the training to be like
here are the exact prompts you're going
to use um and here's the exact
situations you're going to use them. And
that really I think helps drive the
adoption. We spend four weeks with each
team, an hour a week, that kind of
thing. Um it seems to be really cool and
then we'll often also after this go and
build automations and do some of the AI
operations stuff we were talking about
earlier. Companies really like it. Um I
think the we work with a lot of like big
hedge funds and PE firms and um big
companies all that kind of stuff. Um to
your other to your your second question
which is like what separates the good
companies from the bad or the companies
that end up adop adopting this. I think
the the number one predictor is does the
CEO use CHBT
or insert your own chatbot. If the CEO
is in it all the time being like this is
the coolest thing everybody else is
going to start doing it. If the CEO is
like, I don't know, this is for someone
else. Like, no one else is going to be
able to lead that charge. Um, and
they're either going to have uh either
they're going to be negative on it and
so definitely no one's going to do it or
they're going to have way unrealistic
expectations
because they have no intuition for
what's possible and they're just going
to get really disappointed. But the CEOs
that are using it all the time are able
to like both drive the excitement and
set reasonable expectations for what can
be achieved. And so those things end up
working really well. And the people that
do this really well. So for example, we
um we work with a hedge fund called
Walleye, which I had the founder on my
podcast AI and I um a few weeks ago.
They're gigantic $10 billion hedge fund.
Like one of the things that they do,
which I think is I think they're
basically the model for like how to do
this.
First thing he did, which a lot of CEOs
are doing, is send the we're an AI first
company email. Everyone's got the memo.
You just got to really do it. And one of
the things he said in his memo, which I
love, is I wrote this I wrote this email
with ChetT and you should too. So like
you got to like
>> in the memo
>> you got to like lead from the front in
that way. And then what he does and I
think what a lot of other like really
cool companies do is they're doing like
weekly uh meetings where people share
prompts and share use cases. They're
doing um they do like a weekly email to
their entire company being like, "Okay,
here's our here's our usage. Here are
our usage stats for CatchBT. Here are
the here are the people that like um
uh here are the people that came up with
a new prompt and contributed to it."
Like create this this sort of like
awareness and momentum because what's
going back to the point I made earlier
about you know 10% of people are early
adopters. Those are the people inside of
a company that you need to find and
highlight because they're going to just
go spend all this time like figuring out
what works and then all you have to do
is like translate what they learn into
the rest of the organization. And so if
you create forums for them to be
rewarded, you're going to automatically
transfer a lot of their learnings to
everybody else and encourage more of it.
And I think that's kind of this the
secret.
>> That is awesome. I love this advice. So,
just to reflect back what you just
shared, a few kind of uh tactics you
find that you encourage within
companies. One is just send send this
memo, the Toby memo. I don't know if
that's the right way to describe it, who
I think was first along these lines.
Just we're AI first. It's going to be
part of your performance review. It's
going to be asking can you do it in AI
before you could you talk to anyone
else? All these things and then just
note I help I wrote this using chat
JBTs. It's a great idea. Uh this idea of
a weekly meeting. So, it's like a live
or Zoom meeting where people share,
here's the thing I've learned about
using AI. Uh, and then this weekly stats
email of here's how much we're using
Chatbt across the or here's some people
that did some awesome work.
>> Yeah,
>> amazing. And I especially love this very
simple heristic of if your CEO uses
chatbt or cloud or whatever daily that
you it's going to work out.
>> Yeah,
>> that is super cool. Uh, I know it's
early, but what kind of impact have you
seen from a company kind of leaning into
this and adopting AI widely? Any
anything you've seen either anecdotally
or numbers wise?
>> It's early. It's really hard to say
other than um I think generally
people who do this well now feel like
they can do way more work than they used
to without having to hire more people.
Um, and so they're they're just they're
just going further faster um at the same
budget. I actually don't see, you know,
I don't see a lot of people being like,
"Cool, we're going to like fire a bunch
of people." Like, also, I don't really
want to do consulting like that. Like,
that sucks. Um, but we've never had to
say no. Um, mostly people are like,
"Cool, I'm just going to go further with
the with the people that I um that I
have." I think also back to kind of the
first point I made about reassuring
American jobs. Um, I have seen some
companies, not the ones that we worked
with, but I have seen some companies of
people that I'm friends with where
they're like, "We have a call center
somewhere." Um, but I think I can get
the same amount done with like two
employees in the US that have that use
like one of these, you know, customer
service platforms. Like they're still
not totally automatic. Like I think that
Clara CEO thing that was [__] Um
uh but yeah, you can have a couple
people in the US that maybe uh maybe you
pay a little bit less to than you would
for like 100 people somewhere else. And
obviously, you know, those are that's a
calculus that everyone has to make for
themselves. But I've definitely seen
that happen. And um
yeah, I think I think that's that's the
you get more done with the same amount
of people. Maybe to close out our
conversation, I want to come back to
this idea that you referenced, but I
want to spend a little more time on
this, which is this idea of the
allocation economy. Uh, if I understand
it correctly, we've been in this
knowledge economy where people get paid
to do a thing. And your thesis is that
we're moving to this allocation economy
where skills become the manager skills
become more important and we're going to
be spending more of our time managing.
And I think what's amazing about this is
it also tells you which skills will
matter more in the future, which is
something I think a lot of people are
thinking about. So, so maybe just answer
that question and share whatever you
think is important to share to give
people sense of what you're thinking.
>> Yeah. So, this is uh based on an article
I wrote like two two and a half years
ago. So, this is back before like
agents were even like thought of as
viable.
Um, and I was like really trying to
think about
how do I express
um what in my experience using this
every day like what what skills are
useful for me. Um because I think
that'll be the case for for a lot of
other people and I think that's that's
the kind of the best method I think to
do these sorts of predictions is you
have to be doing it all the time
yourself and then that informs your
opinion about this stuff. So, um, what I
noticed using at the time like GBD3 or
maybe GBD4,
um,
was that I was spending a lot of time,
uh, for example, thinking about how do I
communicate the problem? How do I gather
the right information for the problem?
How do I put it in the right way so that
the model that I'm working with gets it?
How do I pick which model to give it to?
And how do I maybe divide up the task to
be like, "Okay, this model does this,
this model does this." Um, based on what
I know to be like what's good and what's
bad? How do I give them feedback? Um,
how do I have like a um a vision for
what I want and a set of criteria for
whether it's good? All that stuff is
exactly how I found myself using these
tools. And I was like, "Oh, that's just
managing."
And and once that like once that clicks
for you, I think you'll start to see a
lot of other things. So, a really good
example is there's a big complaint that
it's like, "Well,
how can I have AI do this? Like, I can't
trust that they're going to do it well,
so I just I should just do it myself."
And I'm just like, "Yeah, that's exactly
what every first time manager says." You
always have this problem where you're
like, "Okay, if I delegate it, it's not
done in the way that I want it to be
done. If I do it myself, I get no
leverage." And so that's how a manager
has to learn how to be a manager is like
when do I lean in and and maybe
micromanage a little bit and when when
can I delegate and how can I trust it
and how do I divide up the task and all
that kind of stuff and so I think
there's a lot of overlap in those skills
and um it just those skills are not
broadly distributed right now um but
they will be in the future because it
will be so much cheaper to be a manager
>> and specifically I was looking at the
article you wrote the skills that you
highlight will be more valuable table is
evaluating talent, vision, taste, and to
your point, when to get into the
details, when it makes sense to dive in.
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome. And then there's also kind of a
connected point you made that you
referenced, which is that generalists
will become more and more valuable in
the future. You mentioned that everyone
at every is a generalist.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh share a little bit about that.
>> Yeah. I find I mean, maybe it's because
I'm a generalist, so you should take
this with a grain of salt.
>> Same. But I think that's one of the
things that has made AI so awesome for
me is like I love to dabble in different
things. So it's like in one day I can be
like coding an app and like making a
video and like making images and writing
and like all that kind of stuff and Chad
is right there with me. Um, and
I think what we've basically what has
happened as civilization has progressed
from like ancient Greece to now is uh
what we've discovered is the more that
we specialize the the better we can
coordinate across many different people.
And so it's sort of it's like the Adam
Smith, you know, like there's a pin
factory and someone's making a pin or
whatever his thing is is um
specialization engment trade. And uh
there have been a lot of really good
impacts of that. And I think you can
like one of my favorite examples of this
is is back to like ancient Greece,
ancient Athens. Um Athens is was a
civilization of generalists at least for
citizens. It was there's like they have
some, you know, a bad history with women
and people who are slaves. But like
let's just put that to the side for a
second. If you were a citizen
generalist, you could you could be
expected to be um a uh a fighter, uh a
judge, a juror, um uh maybe a general.
Like there's you could expect it to have
um many different roles inside of your
society um in your lifetime.
That changed though because Athens
became an empire and as it became an
empire if you're going to send like a
general off to like go and invade Sicily
or whatever um you you want that person
to be like pretty skilled and so it
started to break the general kind of
thing into people start to have specific
roles and they coordinate with each
other and all that kind of stuff. And I
think that that pattern has actually
been really good for developing
civilization, but it's also in a lot of
ways like it's not as fun. Um, it's
actually really cool to be a
well-rounded person. And I think the
interesting thing about AI is that it's
a little bit like you can think of it
like having 10,000 PhDs in your pocket.
It's like it knows so much about every
little branch of human knowledge and
every art form and every, you know, way
of making things or building things and
you just have access to that. So, it's
doing a lot of the it's good for doing a
lot of the specialized tasks that you
might have had to spend like 10 years
getting good at, you know, learning
about this particular species of cicada,
so you know exactly how they like, you
know, reproduce. Um, but now you've got
this thing in your pocket that can tell
you all about that in any given context
at any given time. And so, um, you're
empowered to jump a lot more between all
those different domains of skill. And uh
and you can get more done as for example
like a founder where um I think we can
stay at 15 people much longer um than we
would be able to. So the people inside
of every can stay generalists for much
longer. And I think that that may like
sort of ripple out into the rest of the
economy where instead of like gigantic
massive corporations where like each
person is doing like one little like
button turning, you have many more
smaller organizations with more
generalists. And I think that would
actually be a really good thing. This uh
reminds me I was uh talking to my
personal trainer that I'm trying out for
a little bit and she said that she's a
very big vision kind of high level
person and not good at executing
executing getting like we're staying
organized and GPT is such a godsend for
her because she's just like here's what
I want to do roughly just help me get it
done.
>> That's great
>> and so yeah and it really made me think
about just how much value all this stuff
is going to unlock.
>> This was amazing. It was everything I
wanted it to be. But with that we
reached our very exciting lightning
round. Dan, are you ready?
>> I'm ready.
>> Here we go. What are two or three books
that you find yourself recommending most
to other people?
>> Well, I already recommended one, which
is War in Peace.
Um, definitely got to read that. Uh, if
you want like a Tulsoy primer, I would
read The Death The Death of Ivan Ilitch.
Um, another good one is A Swim in a Pond
in the Rain, which is by George
Saunders. And that's a collection of
Russian short stories that is also about
writing. Um, and I I in particular I
really like the Russians because they're
a lot of the Russian novelists are
dealing with the effects of technology
on traditional Russian way of life. And
they're very kind of in this really
interesting um middle ground between a
sort of romantic outlook on the world
and a more rationalist like we're we're
progress we're making progress. And
that's one of the things you'll find in
Anacrenina when um God what's the guys
what Levvin is out in the fields with
the peasants like doing the scythe thing
like that's that's Toltoy like kind of
like thinking about oh what would it be
like instead of being a nobleman who's
like trying to make make farms way more
efficient I was just like with my scythe
that was like really happy anyway. So
they're dealing with a lot of similar
stuff to I think AI. Um
uh the master and his emissary is
another really good one and that's about
um basically how the different
hemispheres of the brain uh view
reality. It's really really good and I
think it um I think it relates to a lot
of AI stuff too. I think yeah I think I
think those are my those are my three or
four. Yeah.
>> Excellent list. I think nobody's
mentioned most uh either any of these so
this is that's always a good sign. Uh,
do you have a favorite recent movie or
TV show you really enjoyed?
>> Yes. Um, I really love Deadwood.
Um, have you seen it?
>> I absolutely love it. Uh, I remember
when they stopped it for some reason. I
think he had to go do something else at
HBO. It was so sad. It was It's amazing.
Uh,
>> yeah. David Milch is incredible.
National treasure, incredible writer.
But what I what I really think what I
really love about it and I only recently
watched it is um
>> he talks about Deadwood being about how
order forms out of chaos. Um so it's
this like frontier town. People are
going to it and like there's no law,
there's no rules and by like season 3
there's like a mayor and like you know
there all the industry has come in and
it's like a real proper town and I just
love that. And I think there's a lot of
um there's a lot of parallels from the
like the western frontier to technology
frontiers. And so I think that show is
like a really interesting study in that
kind of dynamic.
>> I love how everything connects to how
tech works and how AI came to be. I I
love this.
>> Thank you.
>> Uh do you have a favorite product you've
recently discovered that you really
love?
>> I don't have a good answer for that
because I just spent a lot of time using
our internal products. Um, but I like my
my stock answer is granola. Um, so I do
I do really love granola. I my one gripe
with them and I hope they listen to this
podcast is I really want to export all
my notes. I want API.
>> Um, but other than that I think it's a
fantastic product.
>> That is definitely the most mentioned
product in this segment for the past
couple months. So yeah, Ketchup Granola.
I can't help but mention you get a year
free of granola if you become an annual
subscriber of my newsletter. What a
freaking deal. And not just you, but
your whole company gets free granola for
a year. What the what a deal.
>> This is not a paid promotion uh by me. I
just, you know, that's just what how I
feel. So, I'm glad uh I'm glad it's part
of the bundle.
>> Yeah. Incredible. Okay. Do you have a
favorite life motto that you often come
back to find useful in work or in life?
>> So, basically, like I used to be all and
has memory. So, I was like, you know,
I'm going on Lenny's podcast. What would
my life motto be? And it said, your life
motto is a witness deeply, build
bravely. um you you prize slow attentive
seeing whether it's reading Toltoy
tracking meditation themes or X-raying a
David Milch paragraph so like we're
we're it's hitting all the stuff I just
mentioned which is really funny um
>> and then build bravely you turn those
insights into concrete things like every
and Kora and long form essays and and
all that kind of stuff so I think
there's I think there's something about
that actually this reminds me this
actually reminds me of the actual motto
which is and I didn't come up with this
I think it's like ply the younger um uh
said um do things worth writing about
and write things worth reading. Seems
like a pretty good summation.
>> Do things worth writing about and read
things worth reading.
>> Write things worth reading.
>> Write things worth reading. That's
that's should be the motto of both of
our newsletters.
>> That is really good. Okay. And by the
way, I love that you asked Chad PT.
What's my life motto?
>> And wait, this is interesting. So, it
didn't give me the answer, but inspired
the answer. Yeah.
>> And I think that's actually like exactly
how I use it.
>> Wow. It's an extension of our brains
already.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh last question. I was uh reading
somewhere where you wrote that you
stopped writing at one point. You were
just like I need to do other things. I
need to build this company. And then you
realized I need to get back to writing
because things started going sideways.
And I feel like this this such an
interesting corlary to a lot of the
stuff you talked about of do things that
make you happy, stay close to joy. uh
just share what happened there because
because I didn't know that
>> this is definitely not a lightning round
thing. So I'm h I'm h I'll expound but
I'll try to do it as quickly as
possible.
>> Perfect.
>> Um I think generally when you're
building a company even if you do it the
way that I do it or did it which is you
know you don't raise a lot of money and
you try to you try to stay in control
there's a big temptation to try to run
the company in the way you think you
should. And I have this weird thing
where I'm like, I really love writing,
but I also really love business. And
there just was there were not a lot of
models for me
um of people who had successful
businesses that that were also writers.
Turns out there are um but I didn't know
about that for a while. And so, you
know, early on at every like we were it
was growing really well because I was
writing a lot, Nathan was writing a lot.
Um, and when I stopped writing, uh, the
business didn't work as well because
media businesses don't follow the same
pattern as tech startups because if
you're a media business and you are a
founder who then hires people to make
the product, which is right, if you have
product market fit before, you lose it.
Um, and maybe you hire people that are
good writers, but that's hard. Um, it's
total opposite pattern for startups. You
build the first version of the product
and then you hire people to build the
rest of it. and you know so that's what
I did. Um and I also really struggled
with okay what are the implications for
that and for my career and
um and I think it was hard for me to
admit like I actually want to write
because I just didn't have any examples
of someone being the kind of writer that
I wanted to be. And what's really
interesting is like three years into the
business like the business has been
pretty flat. I was like pretty miserable
because I was like not doing the thing
that I really wanted to do. And I asked
Chet, I was like, "Is there are there
any examples of writers that have built
businesses?" And it was like, "Yeah, uh
Joel Spolski, who built Trello and Stack
Overflow. Um there's uh Jason Frerieded
uh who I've known for a long time and I'
have always always looked up to but I
forgot about in this context. There is
um Sam Harris who's got a great podcast
and he's got a gigantic meditation app."
Um there is um Bill Simmons who's like
incredible podcaster and also built the
ringer, sold Spotify for a couple
hundred million bucks. Like there's a
lot of these people and there are
patterns that they use to build
companies that are pretty well
understood. They're just not typical
Silicon Valley patterns. And so I was
like cool like I just want to be a
writer. I think it would be really fun.
And so I sort of flipped I still have
the builder, entrepreneur, founder part
of my identity, but I sort of flipped it
to be like writing is at the center and
I'm like unapologetic about it. Um, and
that's actually good for the business.
It's good for me and it's good for the
business. And the more I've leaned into
that, doing the thing that like if you
told anyone that you were starting a
business where it's like, well, we're
going to be a newsletter and we're going
to incubate all these apps and we're
going to do consulting and whatever,
they would be like, you're nuts. Like
everyone wants to do that. Of course,
every founder wants to do that, but like
you you have to focus. You have to like
you can't write like whatever. But every
time I've kind of just leaned into um
something that feels like the most the
ultimate luxury of like my my hidden
secret desire, it's actually worked a
lot better. And um I think you end up
what what it really is is there's a huge
tax to doing something every day that
you're not quite you don't quite like
that much or you're not quite a fit for.
And by sort of giving into that those
secret desires, you end up finding a
shape for the work that you do and the
business that you build that is good for
you. And that's always going to be a
somewhat unique shape from other
businesses that have been built. There's
it's always going to rhyme with other
things, but I think finding that unique
shape instead of just kind of cargo
culting like what you think a company
should look like is definitely a much
better way to be successful and it's
also a much better way to live. I think
this is going to hit hard with a lot of
people who are listening who are maybe
founders or want to be founders and this
resonates with a lot of people that have
been on this podcast sharing similar
lessons. Dan, this was incredible. Two
final questions. Where can folks check
out Every find you online and how can
listeners be useful to you? So, you can
find us at every.to. Uh I'm also on
Twitter at DanShipper. Um, you can uh go
there to check out our uh our uh our our
products, our newsletter if you want to
stay on top of AI, all that kind of
stuff. I also have a podcast. It's
called AI and Die. You can find it on
YouTube and on Spotify. Um, and how can
people be useful? Honestly, I think the
the most useful thing um for someone
like me based on what I want to do is
like I want people to find interesting
cool ways to use AI that like actually
helps their make their lives better. So
like just go do that and tell me about
it. Um, and I think that'll be great.
Um,
>> what's the best way to tell you? Is it,
uh, comments on your YouTube show? Is it
emailing you, DM you?
>> Uh, I would say, uh, tweet me. Um, uh,
you, if you subscribe to every, you can
also reply to those emails and they they
eventually get forwarded to me. Um,
>> so tweet me, reply reply to every. Um,
and if you want to comment on YouTube,
great. Um, I'm not in the YouTube
comment comments as much as I should be.
>> Don't do that. Maybe don't do that. Um,
okay. Well, Dan, this was incredible.
Thank you so much for sharing. Thanks
for being here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Bye everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.